Peer Review Proposals
In this lab, you will review a copy of two different peers' proposals. You will give them a copy of your review, and also give me a summary of your review (see Part I).

You will also recieve reviews on your proposal from two of your peers. You will give me a summary of those reviews and how you plan to address their comments (see Part II).

Part I

Summarize the review and comments you gave to your peer. You will need to do this for each proposal that you review (i.e., twice). Be sure to state the name of the person you are reviewing.

------------------------------
Peer review for Leema John

Queston 1

Did you feel that the proposal you graded was complete in terms of length, and that it demonstrated a genuine effort on your peer's part. If not, explain what you felt was lacking.

Yes, I can see that she had put in her time to do her background research because of the citations and supporting elaborations. She could add more to her justifications. 

Question 2

Briefly summarize the overarching objective and hypothesis of the reviewed proposal.

Her objective is to compare refined data sets for Pacific benthic foraminiferal oxygen isotope ratios to species abundance.

Her hypothesis is that the species abundance, body mass distributions and geographic range of distribution for Eumoetopias jubatus will exhibit a decline alongside benthic foraminiferal isotopic ratios over the span of the Pleistocene and Eocene epochs.

Question 3

Does the hypothesis meet the following criteria in your estimation? If not, explain why.

Do you believe that this hypothesis is coherent and understandable? Yes
Do you believe that this hypothesis is novel? Yes. However, I am not sure if she considered that the decline in sea lions may be more as result of declining population of smaller organisms that make the food source of the sealions.
Do you believe that this hypothesis is testable/feasible? Mostly yes, but I think that the increase in temperatures is more directly correlative to the decline in food source.
Do you believe that this hypothesis is scientifically or socially relevant? Yes

Question 4

Summarize the areas where you felt that the proposal could be improved.

I also thought it needs to be make clear if global warming is directly affecting the sea lions or if it is actually affecting their food source which in turns affects them. Also, the use of foram oxygen isotope as the temperature proxy. 

Question 5

What constructive criticism did you provide to your peer to address the areas that needed improvement?

I suggested her to check if the foraminifera oxygen isotope data is the best proxy to study temperature changes, and explain why she did not use other proxies. I also suggested that the distinction between the affects of global warming to the sea lion versus its affects to their food source needs to be addressed to ensure she is make an accurate correlation.

Question 6

Did you feel that this proposal made an adequate use of citation and background research? If not, what additional information did you want to see?

She can add more to the justifications. I would like to see her consideration of the decline in food source as mentioned above.

-----------------------------
Part II

Summarize your response to your peers' reviews of your proposal. You will need to do this once for each review you recieve. State who was your reviewer.

Question 1

Did the reviewer clearly understand your hypothesis? If not, what will you do to make it clearer?

No; I will add the words "hypothesis" before stating my hypothesis and use "increase" and "decrease" to more clearly explain relationships. I also need to explain the study better to make it more understandable to people unfamiliar with corals. 

Question 2

Did the reviewer feel that your proposed project was scientifically or socially relevant? If not, how will you improve it?

Mostly yes, but she said it was not obvious enough why it is important to today's coral reef studies. I will elaborate on the decline of corals as a result of global warming today.

Question 3

Did the reviewer approve of your proposed analytical methods? If not, how will you improve them?

No, since I did not explain my analytical methods before, I will need to add more to this. In particular, I will need to add how I plan to calculate diversity and disparities and how I will analyze this data. 

Question 4

Do you feel that your reviewer did an adequate and thorough job in their review? How could they have improved their review?

Generally yes, I think she gave good feedback and asked a lot of questions to understand my project. She did not seem to convinced of my proposal to study the inner and outer edge of corals in the two time periods. I think she could have given me her opinion on why she thinks it might not work. 

Question 5

In general, what steps will you now take to improve your proposal?

I will lengthen the proposal and add more supporting information to justify it. Also, the hypothesis seems to be the biggest concern so I will try to make it clearer. I also need to explain the study better to consider readers of different geological backgrounds.
