Peer Review Proposals
In this lab, you will review a copy of two different peers' proposals. You will give them a copy of your review, and also give me a summary of your review (see Part I).

You will also recieve reviews on your proposal from two of your peers. You will give me a summary of those reviews and how you plan to address their comments (see Part II).

Part I

Summarize the review and comments you gave to your peer. You will need to do this for each proposal that you review (i.e., twice). Be sure to state the name of the person you are reviewing.

-------------------------
Peer review for Derek Li bli234@wisc.edu

Question 1

Did you feel that the proposal you graded was complete in terms of length, and that it demonstrated a genuine effort on your peer's part. If not, explain what you felt was lacking.

I think that it can be longer, particularly in the justification section. More citations can be added. In general, I think he did a good job in the introduction with an interesting topic and clear objective and hypothesis. 

Question 2

Briefly summarize the overarching objective and hypothesis of the reviewed proposal.

His objective is to test if the mass extinction of dominant terrestrial taxa in the Late Cretaceous makes it more ecologically importnat than the Late Triassic mass extinction.

His hypothesis is that since dominant taxa are essential and makeup a major of terrestrial niches, the extinction of these taxa could lead to a devastating ecological effect of the terrestrial taxa.

Question 3

Does the hypothesis meet the following criteria in your estimation? If not, explain why.

Do you believe that this hypothesis is coherent and understandable? Yes
Do you believe that this hypothesis is novel? Yes
Do you believe that this hypothesis is testable/feasible? Yes
Do you believe that this hypothesis is scientifically or socially relevant? Yes


Question 4

Summarize the areas where you felt that the proposal could be improved.

In the hypothesis, I think he should specify what "devastating" ecological effect he is specifically referring to. Also, further research needs to be done to strengthen his justification. That is, to add more citations and supporting arguments.

Question 5

What constructive criticism did you provide to your peer to address the areas that needed improvement?

I suggested him to be more specific and choose a more descriptive word to replace "devasting". Also, to expand his reading in the topic so that he could add more bulk to his proposal.

Question 6

Did you feel that this proposal made an adequate use of citation and background research? If not, what additional information did you want to see?

I think there is more space for more citation and background research. I would like to see more justification and elaboration on the application of his research.


---------------------------------------
Part II

Summarize your response to your peers' reviews of your proposal. You will need to do this once for each review you recieve. State who was your reviewer.

Question 1

Did the reviewer clearly understand your hypothesis? If not, what will you do to make it clearer?

No; I will add the words "hypothesis" before stating my hypothesis and use "increase" and "decrease" to more clearly explain relationships. 

Question 2

Did the reviewer feel that your proposed project was scientifically or socially relevant? If not, how will you improve it?

Yes. He thought it was interesting and relevant to today's coral reef studies.

Question 3

Did the reviewer approve of your proposed analytical methods? If not, how will you improve them?

No, since I did not explain my analytical methods before, I will need to add more to this. In particular, I will need to add how I plan to calculate diversity and disparities and how I will analyze this data. 

Question 4

Do you feel that your reviewer did an adequate and thorough job in their review? How could they have improved their review?

Generally yes, I think he gave good feedback and asked a lot of questions to understand my project. He could give more specific ways how I could explain my research better in my writing because it did seems like he did not fully understand it before I verbally explained afterwards.

Question 5

In general, what steps will you now take to improve your proposal?

I will lengthen the proposal and add more supporting information to justify it.